# DH110 Spring2023 Assignment02 - Yongsen Huang
# Pilot Usability Testing

## Introduction
Life360 is a mobile app that offers family location tracking and communication features. The app is designed to help families stay connected and keep track of each other's whereabouts in real-time. Users can create a private family network and share their real-time location with each other on a map. Life360 includes various safety alerts, such as notifications when a family member arrives or leaves a designated location, like home or school. Users can communicate with each other through the app using messaging and check-in features. Additionally, Life360 tracks and analyzes driving behavior, such as speed, acceleration, and phone usage, and provides insights and reports to help users monitor and improve their driving habits.

After conducting a heuristic evaluation, we found some usability concerns with Life360. While using the app, we noticed that there is no interface to click on the geofence created by the user. This means the user has to zoom in on the map to find the highlighted location. If family members live far apart, the map will be zoomed out, making it difficult to see the geofence. Additionally, the invitation code for the created circle is not clearly indicated, and the invitation code shortcut icon can be misunderstood as an interface to add private friends. The app also lacks a shortcut to remove created circles. Finally, we noticed that Life360 does not have membership management on the membership page, preventing users from being able to cancel their subscription at any time.

To make better judgments, it is necessary to perform a usability test that lets users perform designed tasks to identify areas where the Life360 app needs improvement. The test will capture the effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfaction of the app. Task 1 will ask the user to create a new geofence and customize it. It will also ask the user to locate the newly created geofence, simulating the behavior of parent users. Task 2 will ask the user to simulate a situation where they need to create a new circle and leave it. This task will test the user's understanding of the basic usage of the app and the invitation code. Task 3 will ask the user to simulate a situation where they need to cancel their Life360 membership subscription. This task will help identify any concerns with user control and freedom. All three tasks are designed to identify and improve usability concerns regarding visibility, efficiency of use, and user control and freedom.

## Methodology
The participant is being recruited by the test moderator via messenger. Participant responded with an appropriate date and time. The session will take approximately 20-30 minutes and asked the participant to fill out a brief background questionnaire. Participants read the task scenarios and tried to find the information on the mobile app. The pilot usability test will be conducted in a quiet room. Participant will perform the tasks remotely as the the target users are set to be the one who has family members living far apart from each other. The meet up and recording will be done by using Zoom. Both the moderator and the participant will log on to Zoom at the decided time. The participant will use their phone and use Life360. Their phone screen will be recorded separately since is would be difficult for the participant mirroring the phone screen on their computer. 

The moderator will first introduce the mobile app and the usability test process to the participant. The moderator will also go over the consent form, which the participant must sign to give us permission to record their voice and face. The first part of the test will be a pre-test questionnaire measuring the ease of use of each main page of Life360 based on the participant's feedback. Next, the participant will be asked to complete three designed tasks and to explain how and why they completed each step. After completing the tasks, the participant will fill out a post-test questionnaire that asks how likely they are to use each interface, how often they will use these features, and their agreement with each statement about using the app. The post-test questionnaire also asks for the participant's likes and dislikes, and for them to choose adjectives that match their experience of using the app. Lastly, the participant will anonymously provide their demographic information.

## Survey & Video Recordings

Here is the link for the [survey](https://forms.gle/zT8sdndQXEKRkAtG6).

Here is the link for the [phone screen recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lrEcRa0DZH_qDHyAwS4vQJDcBjX7iGL1/view?usp=sharing) and the [pilot test video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mRz4wQXs12E0ECgmyaeSQUfcEgvqHyi-/view?usp=sharing).

## Reflection

